Project Proposal

I am working as an energy systems engineering researcher. There are many existing problems and active areas of research in this space, but I am particularly interested in privacy preserving energy disaggregation. This entails building predictive models for appliance level power consumption based on aggregate metered power consumption data while allowing daily characteristics of the owner of the power data being analyzed to remain private. This is an important issue because data such as precise times of residence occupancy and appliance usage can pose a major threat to users if said data were to be compromised. The area of energy disaggregation as a whole is an important topic as it allows for appliance level power consumption predictive models to be constructed without the need for a multitude of costly submeters on various appliances within the residence.

My goals are 1) to build an accurate and generally applicable predictive model for energy disaggregation purposes and 2) to optimize the privacy accuracy tradeoff associated with making the data private. To achieve my goals, I plan to explore the Pecan Street Dataset through Dataport that offers circuit-level electricity use and generation data for more than 1,000 volunteer homes across the United States. Out of these 1,000 homes, I will have access to 79 homes in New York. I believe this dataset is suitable for my purposes since it contains a large and diverse set of homes as well as 1-minute interval data for each appliance measured. I want to find the best method of accurately performing energy disaggregation for a collection of homes while maintaining user privacy. My current literature review has revealed to me that privacy preserving techniques often involve adding noise or incorrect data to the dataset in order to prevent data interceptors from retrieving compromising data. This noise decreases the accuracy of the dataset and I wish to explore how the privacy/accuracy tradeoff can be optimized.

A potential problem that could arise is an inability to find a model capable of generalizing to a broad set of existing building sizes, use-types and locations. For this reason, I will consider building energy disaggregation prediction models for buildings in similar geographical areas, and if I can find information on building size, I will classify by size as well. In order to do this, I am considering using a k-means clustering algorithm before performing energy disaggregation to create building clusters that can each have their own respective energy disaggregation models built afterwards.

I believe this problem is worth exploring since it is a prevalent issue that remains unsolved in the energy systems engineering research community. It also seems to be an area that has little exploration in terms of finding potential solutions. I believe I am likely to succeed because of the wealth of data I have available to me as well as the technical knowledge of practical data-driven analysis I am being provided in this course.
